Reorganization of the Release Notes on Consul.io (#12858)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/release-notes/consul-api-gateway/v0_1_x.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: 0.1.x
description: >-
  Consul API Gateway release notes for version 0.1.x
---

# Consul API Gateway 0.1.0

> ## OVerview

Author: 1) Fixed the type. 2) I thought about it a bit and I think I prefer it the way it is but thank you for the feedback.

This is the first General Availability (GA) release of Consul API Gateway. It
provides controlled access for network traffic, from outside a Consul service
mesh, to Services on the mesh

In Kubernetes deployments, it can be used as an alternative to Consul's Ingress
Gateway and provides capabilities Ingress Gateway does not. These include:

1. It allows you to configure and deploy new gateways at any time, without
   rerunning the Consul Helm chart. The configuration of a running gateway can
   be changed dynamically at anytime, usually without disrupting any the the
   traffic flowing through it.
1. Listeners on a gateway can use TLS server certificates signed by any
   Certificate Authority (CA). This allows you to use certificates from public

>    CA's, like Verisign and Let's Encrypt, and private CA's, such as a company's

Author: Good to know. Thanks!

   internal CA.

## Release Highlights

> 
> 1. **Supported Runtimes:** Kubernetes - self managed, AWS EKS, Google GKE and Azure AKS.

Author: ```suggestion
This release includes the following features and capabilities:

1. Can be deployed in the following run time environments:
  - Self-managed Kubernetes
  - AWS EKS
  - Google GKE
  - Azure AKS.
```

1. Install via the  HashiCorp Consul Helm chart.
1. Works with self-managed Consul servers and HCP Consul servers
1. Configure via Kubernetes Gateway API - v1alpha2
1. Deploy 1 or more logical API Gateways per Kubernetes cluster
1. Supported protocols: HTTP, HTTPS, TCP, TCP+TLS

> 1. Supported HTTP versions: 1.1 & 2

Author: Yes, they should. I'll add them to that page as part of the APW GW 0.2 docs update tomorrow. Good catch.

1. Load balance across a service’s instances
1. Listeners load TLS certificates, signed by any CA, from Kubernetes Secret Storage
1. Route HTTP/S traffic to Services based on matching:
   - Hostname
   - URI Path
   - HTTP Header
   - HTTP Method

>    - HTTP Query parameters

Author: I think they are proper nouns in this case because they are being used like the names of fields in a database. Technically, they are fields in the structure of a HTTP message.

1  HTTP Header manipulation:
   - Set header value
   - Add header and/or value
   - Remove header and/or value
1. TLS settings configurable per Listener:
   - Set minimum allowed TLS version
   - Enabled cipher-suites (a.k.a. Cipher string)
1. Route to services in different Name Spaces
1. Split traffic across multiple services, based on weight
1. Support multi-runtime service mesh deployments
   - The Consul API Gateway must be running on Kubernetes but it can route
     traffic to services running outside of K8s as long the service is connected

>      to the Consul service mesh.

Author: This isn't a full list of features and capabilities, but they are the key ones. I think it is appropriate to list these as highlights because this is the very first GA release.

## Supported Software - Minimum Versions

- Consul: 1.11.2+
- HashiCorp Consul Helm chart: 0.41.1+
- Kubernetes: 1.21+
- Kubectl: 1.21+

> - Envoy Proxy: Determined by the Consul version deployed

Author: Yes, that is probably the best place to refer users to.
